For 3.1+, one of the following:

    isinstance(something, io.TextIOBase)
    isinstance(something, io.BufferedIOBase)
    isinstance(something, io.RawIOBase)
    isinstance(something, io.IOBase)

For 2.x, "file-like object" is too vague a thing to check for, but the documentation for whatever function(s) you're dealing with will hopefully tell you what they actually need; if not, read the code.

---

As other answers point out, the first thing to ask is what exactly you're checking for. Usually, EAFP is sufficient, and more idiomatic.

[The glossary](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-file-object) says "file-like object" is a synonym for "file object", which ultimately means it's an instance of one of the three [abstract base classes](https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html) defined in [the `io` module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/io.html#class-hierarchy), which are themselves all subclasses of `IOBase`. So, the way to check is exactly as shown above.

(However, checking `IOBase` isn't very useful. Can you imagine a case where you need to distinguish an actual file-like `read(size)` from some one-argument function named `read` that isn't file-like, without also needing to distinguish between text files and raw binary files? So, really, you almost always want to check, e.g., "is a text file object", not "is a file-like object".)

---

For 2.x, while the `io` module has existed since 2.6+, built-in file objects are not instances of `io` classes, neither are any of the file-like objects in the stdlib, and neither are most third-party file-like objects you're likely to encounter. There was no official definition of what "file-like object" means; it's just "something like a builtin [file object](https://docs.python.org/2.7/library/stdtypes.html#bltin-file-objects)", and different functions mean different things by "like". Such functions should document what they mean; if they don't, you have to look at the code.

However, the most common meanings are "has `read(size)`", "has `read()`", or "is an iterable of strings", but some old libraries may expect `readline` instead of one of those, some libraries like to `close()` files you give them, some will expect that if `fileno` is present then other functionality is available, etc. And similarly for `write(buf)` (although there are a lot fewer options in that direction).