Yeah, you don't have any pretty options.  The time is written with this line in _write_gzip_header:

    write32u(self.fileobj, long(time.time()))

Since they don't give you a way to override the time, you can do one of these things:

 1. Derive a class from GzipFile, and copy the `_write_gzip_header` function into your derived class, but with a different value in this one line.
 2. After importing the gzip module, assign new code to its time member.  You will essentially be providing a new definition of the name time in the gzip code, so you can change what time.time() means.
 3. Copy the entire gzip module, and name it my_stable_gzip, and change the line you need to.
 4. Pass a CStringIO object in as fileobj, and modify the bytestream after gzip is done.
 5. Write a fake file object that keeps track of the bytes written, and passes everything through to a real file, except for the bytes for the timestamp, which you write yourself.

Here's an example of option #2 (untested):

    class FakeTime:
        def time(self):
            return 1225856967.109

    import gzip
    gzip.time = FakeTime()

    # Now call gzip, it will think time doesn't change!

Option #5 may be the cleanest in terms of not depending on the internals of the gzip module (untested):

    class GzipTimeFixingFile:
        def __init__(self, realfile):
            self.realfile = realfile
            self.pos = 0

        def write(self, bytes):
            if self.pos == 4 and len(bytes) == 4:
                self.realfile.write("XYZY")  # Fake time goes here.
            else:
                self.realfile.write(bytes)
            self.pos += len(bytes)
