Because it *is* a valid IPv4 address, as far as Microsoft's parsers are concerned.  The [`inet_addr()`](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms738563.aspx) documentation explains this in more detail:

> Internet Addresses
>
> Values specified using the ".'' notation take one of the following forms:
>
> a.b.c.d **a.b.c** a.b a
>
> When four parts are specified, each is interpreted as a byte of data and assigned, from left to right, to the 4 bytes of an Internet address. When an Internet address is viewed as a 32-bit integer quantity on the Intel architecture, the bytes referred to above appear as "d.c.b.a''. That is, the bytes on an Intel processor are ordered from right to left.
>
> The parts that make up an address in "." notation can be decimal, octal or hexadecimal as specified in the C language. Numbers that start with "0x" or "0X" imply hexadecimal. Numbers that start with "0" imply octal. All other numbers are interpreted as decimal.
>
> <pre>
Internet address value   Meaning
"4.3.2.16"               Decimal 
"004.003.002.020"        Octal 
"0x4.0x3.0x2.0x10"       Hexadecimal 
"4.003.002.0x10"         Mix 
</pre>
>
> The inet_addr function supports the decimal, octal, hexadecimal, and mixed notations for the string passed in the cp parameter.
> 
> Note  The following notations are only used by Berkeley software, and nowhere else on the Internet. For compatibility with Berkeley software, the inet_addr function also supports the additional notations specified below.
>
> **When a three-part address is specified, the last part is interpreted as a 16-bit quantity and placed in the right-most 2 bytes of the network address. This makes the three-part address format convenient for specifying Class B network addresses as "128.net.host"**
>
> When a two-part address is specified, the last part is interpreted as a 24-bit quantity and placed in the right-most 3 bytes of the network address. This makes the two-part address format convenient for specifying Class A network addresses as "net.host''.
>
> When only one part is given, the value is stored directly in the network address without any byte rearrangement.
