The problem with your approach is that you are trying to interpret bash scripts. First you just try to interpret the export statement. But when people think they can use bash syntax they will. They will use variable expansion, conditionals, process substitutions. In the end you will have a full blown bash script interpreter with a gazillion bugs. Don't do that.

Let Bash interpret the file for you and then collect the results.

Here is a minimal example how to do so:

    #! /usr/bin/env python
    
    import os
    import pprint
    import shlex
    import subprocess
    
    command = shlex.split("bash -c 'source init_env && env'")
    proc = subprocess.Popen(command, stdout = subprocess.PIPE)
    for line in proc.stdout:
      (key, _, value) = line.partition("=")
      os.environ[key] = value
    proc.communicate()
    
    pprint.pprint(dict(os.environ))

Make sure that you handle errors. see here for how: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25079140/subprocess-popen-checking-for-success-and-errors

Also read the documentation on [subprocess](http://docs.python.org/library/subprocess.html).

this will only capture variables set with the `export` statement, as `env` only prints exported variables. you can add `set -a` to treat all variables as exported.

    command = shlex.split("bash -c 'set -a && source init_env && env'")
                                    ^^^^^^

note that this code will not handle multi line variables. it will also not handle bash function definitions.

----
perhaps better than calling bash source from inside python is to first let bash source the file and then run the python script

    #!/bin/bash
    source init_env
    /path/to/python_script.py

here bash will `source init_env` with all the power and glory and quirks of bash. the python script will inherit the updated environment.

note that again only exported variables will be inherited. you can force all variable assignments to be exported with `set -a`

    #!/bin/bash
    set -a
    source init_env
    /path/to/python_script.py

----
another approach would be to tell the users that they can strictly only do `key=value` without any bash power. then use python [configparser](https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html).

this will have the advantage of simple `init_env` syntax and a rigorously tested config parser. but the disadvantage that the `init_env` will no longer be as expressive as bash config files can be.