This will not only change the *max_retries* but also enable a backoff strategy which makes requests to all *http://* addresses sleep for a period of time before retrying (to a total of 5 times):

    import requests

    from requests.adapters import HTTPAdapter, Retry

    s = requests.Session()

    retries = Retry(total=5,
                    backoff_factor=0.1,
                    status_forcelist=[ 500, 502, 503, 504 ])

    s.mount('http://', HTTPAdapter(max_retries=retries))

    s.get('http://httpstat.us/500')

As per [documentation for `Retry`](http://urllib3.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/urllib3.util.html#module-urllib3.util.retry): if the backoff_factor is _0.1_, then sleep() will sleep for [0.05s, 0.1s, 0.2s, 0.4s, ...] between retries. It will also force a retry if the status code returned is _500_, _502_, _503_ or _504_.

Various other options to `Retry` allow for more granular control:

 * *total* – Total number of retries to allow.
 * *connect* – How many connection-related errors to retry on.
 * *read* – How many times to retry on read errors.
 * *redirect* – How many redirects to perform.
 * *method_whitelist* – Set of uppercased HTTP method verbs that we should retry on.
 * *status_forcelist* – A set of HTTP status codes that we should force a retry on.
 * *backoff_factor* – A backoff factor to apply between attempts.
 * *raise_on_redirect* – Whether, if the number of redirects is exhausted, to raise a `MaxRetryError`, or to return a response with a response code in the _3xx_ range.
 * raise_on_status – Similar meaning to *raise_on_redirect*: whether we should raise an exception, or return a response, if status falls in *status_forcelist* range and retries have been exhausted.

<strike>**NB**: *raise_on_status* is relatively new, and has not made it into a release of urllib3 or requests yet.</strike> The *raise_on_status* keyword argument appears to have made it into the standard library at most in python version 3.6.

To make requests retry on specific HTTP status codes, use *status_forcelist*. For example, *status_forcelist=[503]* will retry on status code _503_ (service unavailable).

By default, the retry only fires for these conditions:

 * Could not get a connection from the pool.
 * `TimeoutError`
 * `HTTPException` raised (from *http.client* in Python 3 else *httplib*).
   This seems to be low-level HTTP exceptions, like URL or protocol not
   formed correctly.
 * `SocketError`
 * `ProtocolError`

Notice that these are all exceptions that prevent a regular HTTP response from being received. If **any** regular response is generated, no retry is done. Without using the *status_forcelist*, even a response with status 500 will not be retried.

To make it behave in a manner which is more intuitive for working with a remote API or web server, I would use the above code snippet, which forces retries on statuses _500_, _502_, _503_ and _504_, all of which are not uncommon on the web and (possibly) recoverable given a big enough backoff period.