`date` and `datetime` objects (and `time` as well) support a [mini-language to specify output](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#strftime-and-strptime-behavior), and there are two ways to access it:

- [direct method call][0]: `dt.strftime('format here')`
- [format method][1] (python 2.6+): `'{:format here}'.format(dt)`
- [f-strings][2] (python 3.6+): `f'{dt:format here}'`

So your example could look like:

- `dt.strftime('The date is %b %d, %Y')`
- `'The date is {:%b %d, %Y}'.format(dt)`
- `f'The date is {dt:%b %d, %Y}'`

In all three cases the output is:

> The date is Feb 23, 2012

For completeness' sake: you can also directly access the attributes of the object, but then you only get the numbers:

    'The date is %s/%s/%s' % (dt.month, dt.day, dt.year)
    # The date is 02/23/2012

The time taken to learn the mini-language is worth it.

---

For reference, here are the codes used in the mini-language:

- `%a` 	Weekday as locale’s abbreviated name. 	
- `%A` 	Weekday as locale’s full name. 	
- `%w` 	Weekday as a decimal number, where 0 is Sunday and 6 is Saturday.
- `%d` 	Day of the month as a zero-padded decimal number.
- `%b` 	Month as locale’s abbreviated name.
- `%B` 	Month as locale’s full name.
- `%m` 	Month as a zero-padded decimal number. 	01, ..., 12 	 
- `%y` 	Year without century as a zero-padded decimal number. 	00, ..., 99 	 
- `%Y` 	Year with century as a decimal number. 	1970, 1988, 2001, 2013 	 
- `%H` 	Hour (24-hour clock) as a zero-padded decimal number. 	00, ..., 23 	 
- `%I` 	Hour (12-hour clock) as a zero-padded decimal number. 	01, ..., 12 	 
- `%p` 	Locale’s equivalent of either AM or PM.
- `%M` 	Minute as a zero-padded decimal number. 	00, ..., 59 	 
- `%S` 	Second as a zero-padded decimal number. 	00, ..., 59
- `%f` 	Microsecond as a decimal number, zero-padded on the left. 	000000, ..., 999999
- `%z` 	UTC offset in the form +HHMM or -HHMM  (empty if naive), +0000, -0400, +1030
- `%Z` 	Time zone name  	(empty if naive), UTC, EST, CST 	 
- `%j` 	Day of the year as a zero-padded decimal number. 	001, ..., 366 	 
- `%U` 	Week number of the year (Sunday is the first) as a zero padded decimal number.
- `%W` 	Week number of the year (Monday is first) as a decimal number.
- `%c` 	Locale’s appropriate date and time representation. 	
- `%x` 	Locale’s appropriate date representation. 	
- `%X` 	Locale’s appropriate time representation. 	
- `%%` 	A literal '%' character.

  [0]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html#datetime.date.strftime
  [1]: https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#format
  [2]: https://realpython.com/python-f-strings/