Combining all of the existing answers with a bunch of usage experience, I think that I have come up with a list of all the things that need to be done to ensure completely seamless usage of the new level. The steps below assume that you are adding a new level `TRACE` with value `logging.DEBUG - 5 == 5`:

  1. `logging.addLevelName(logging.DEBUG - 5, 'TRACE')` needs to be invoked to get the new level registered internally so that it can be referenced by name.
  2. The new level needs to be added as an attribute to `logging` itself for consistency: `logging.TRACE = logging.DEBUG - 5`.
  3. A method called `trace` needs to be added to the `logging` module. It should behave just like `debug`, `info`, etc.
  4. A method called `trace` needs to be added to the currently configured logger class. Since this is not 100% guaranteed to be `logging.Logger`, use `logging.getLoggerClass()` instead.

All the steps are illustrated in the method below:

    def addLoggingLevel(levelName, levelNum, methodName=None):
        """
        Comprehensively adds a new logging level to the `logging` module and the
        currently configured logging class.
    
        `levelName` becomes an attribute of the `logging` module with the value
        `levelNum`. `methodName` becomes a convenience method for both `logging`
        itself and the class returned by `logging.getLoggerClass()` (usually just
        `logging.Logger`). If `methodName` is not specified, `levelName.lower()` is
        used.
    
        To avoid accidental clobberings of existing attributes, this method will
        raise an `AttributeError` if the level name is already an attribute of the
        `logging` module or if the method name is already present 
    
        Example
        -------
        >>> addLoggingLevel('TRACE', logging.DEBUG - 5)
        >>> logging.getLogger(__name__).setLevel("TRACE")
        >>> logging.getLogger(__name__).trace('that worked')
        >>> logging.trace('so did this')
        >>> logging.TRACE
        5
    
        """
        if not methodName:
            methodName = levelName.lower()
    
        if hasattr(logging, levelName):
           raise AttributeError('{} already defined in logging module'.format(levelName))
        if hasattr(logging, methodName):
           raise AttributeError('{} already defined in logging module'.format(methodName))
        if hasattr(logging.getLoggerClass(), methodName):
           raise AttributeError('{} already defined in logger class'.format(methodName))
    
        # This method was inspired by the answers to Stack Overflow post
        # http://stackoverflow.com/q/2183233/2988730, especially
        # http://stackoverflow.com/a/13638084/2988730
        def logForLevel(self, message, *args, **kwargs):
            if self.isEnabledFor(levelNum):
                self._log(levelNum, message, args, **kwargs)
        def logToRoot(message, *args, **kwargs):
            logging.log(levelNum, message, *args, **kwargs)
    
        logging.addLevelName(levelNum, levelName)
        setattr(logging, levelName, levelNum)
        setattr(logging.getLoggerClass(), methodName, logForLevel)
        setattr(logging, methodName, logToRoot)

You can find an even more detailed implementation in the utility library I maintain, [haggis][1]. The function [`haggis.logs.add_logging_level`][2] is a more production-ready implementation of this answer.


  [1]: https://haggis.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
  [2]: https://haggis.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api.html#haggis.logs.add_logging_level