It seems you just need to add padding to your bytes before decoding. There are many other answers on this question, but I want to point out that (at least in Python 3.x) `base64.b64decode` will truncate any extra padding, provided there is enough in the first place.

So, something like: `b'abc='` works just as well as `b'abc=='` (as does `b'abc====='`).

What this means is that you can just add the maximum number of padding characters that you would ever need—which is two (`b'=='`)—and base64 will truncate any unnecessary ones.

This lets you write:

```python
base64.b64decode(s + b'==')
```

which is simpler than:

```python
base64.b64decode(s + b'=' * (-len(s) % 4))
```

---

Note that if the string `s` already has some padding (e.g. `b"aGVsbG8="`), this approach will only work if the `validate` keyword argument is set to `False` (which is the default). If `validate` is `True` this will result in a `binascii.Error` being raised if the total padding is longer than two characters.

From the [docs](https://docs.python.org/3/library/base64.html#base64.b64decode):

> If *validate* is `False` (the default), characters that are neither in the normal base-64 alphabet nor the alternative alphabet are discarded prior to the padding check.  If *validate* is `True`, these non-alphabet characters in the input result in a `binascii.Error`.

However, if `validate` is `False` (or left blank to be the default) you can blindly add two padding characters without any problem. Thanks to eel ghEEz for pointing this out in the comments.
